# Graph Theory
Motivation for studying graph theory
- Graphs are fun (concrete, easy to try examples, chance to be creative)
- Ubiquitous in computer science and other science.
- Can quickly get to the cutting-edge
- Can often translate difficult problems in other areas of mathematics to graph theory

Definition: A graph G = (V,E)
- V is a set of vertices
- E is a set of edges
- Each edge e $\in$ E is associated with an unordered pair of vertices.
An edge e is incident to a vertex $v\in V$ if $v$ is one of its endpoints.
A vertex $v$ is incident to an edge $e\in E$ if e is incident to $v$.
If $e\in E$ and $e$ is incident to only one vertex, then e is called a loop.
If $e,f \in E$ with $e \neq f$ and such that e and f are incident to the same pair of vertices, then e and f are parallel.
Notation: V(G) for vertices of a graph and E(G) for edges of a graph.

Definition: A graph G is called simple if it has no loops or parallel edges.

Definition: The complete graph $K_n$, $n \in \mathbb Z_{>0}$, is the graph such that V($K_n$) = {1,2,...,n} and $E(K_n)$ consists of one edge between every pair of distinct vertices.
$K_n$ has $n \choose 2$ edges (an edge for every subset of size 2)


Definition: A graph G is bipartile if $\exists$ subsets $V_1, V_2 \subseteq$ $V(G)$ such that
- $V_1 \cup V_2 = V(G)$
- $V_1 \cap V_2 = \varnothing$
- Every edge $e \in E(G)$ connects a vertex from $V_1$ to a vertex in $V_2$.

Equivalent definition of bipartile: A graph G is bipartile if we can color the vertices with at least 2 colors, such that vertices of the same color are not connected by an edge.

Definition: The complete bipartile graph $K_{m,n}$ where $m,n \in \mathbb Z_{>0}$ is the simple graph whose vertex set is partitioned into sets $V_1$ with m vertices and $V_2$ with n vertices, such that there is one edge connecting each $v \in V_1$ with each $v_2 \in V_2$.

Definition: Given a graph G and a vertex g <- V(G), the degree of v, denoted by S(v), is the number of "half-edges" coming out of v.
$$
\begin{align}
S(v) =& 2*|\{e \in G| \text{e is a loop at v}\}| \\
+ &|\{e\in E(G) | \text{e is not a loop and is incident to v}\}
\end{align}$$
Definition: The degree sequence of a graph G is the list of degrees of its vertices, possibly with repeats, not in any particular order.
