**Degree of Face**
Fact: For any drawing of a planar graph G, we get $\sum deg(f) = 2E_G$, because every edge is connected exactly once.

Theorem: For a simple connected planar graph G, with $V_G \geq 3$, we have 
$$E_G \leq 3V_G -6$$
Proof: Draw G in the plane
Claim: For any face f of this drawing, we have deg(f) $\geq$ 3. If deg(f) $\neq$ 1, we would need f to be bouneded by a loop, which is not possible because G is simple. If deg(f) =2, then either f is bounded by a pair of parallel edges, or G is a line connected by two vertices and f is the unique face of this drawing.
The first case is not possible bc G is simple, and the second case is not possible bc $V_G \geq 3$.  This proves the claim.
Now consider $\sum deg(f) \geq \sum_{face} 3 = 3F_G$.
But also $\sum_{face} deg(f) = 2E_G$.
so we have $2E_G \geq 3F_G$ or $F_G \leq \frac{2}{3} E_G$.
By Euler's formula, we have 
$$E_G = V_G + F_G -2$$
 Since $F_G \leq \frac{2}{3} E_G$, $E_G \leq V_G + \frac{2}{3}E_G -2$.
 Multiply by 3: 
$$3E_G \leq 3V_G +2E_G - 6$$
 Then, $E_G \leq 3V_G -6$.
 
 Corollary: $K_5$ is not planar.
 Proof: 
 $E_{K_5} = 10$, and $V_{K_5} = 5$, and 3$V_{K_5} -6 =9$, and 10 $\nleq$ 9.
 Therefore, $K_5$ cannot be planar.
 $K_{3,3}$ is also not planar.

 Fact: we can use $K_5$ and $K_{3,3}$ to characterize planar garphs in general.

 def: given a graph G, and e $\in E(G)$, we form the subdivision of G along e as follows:
 1. If e is a loop based at $v\in V(G)$, first remove e from G, then add a new vertex to G, and then connect to the new vertex by a pair of parallel edges (add a vertex on the other end of the loop)
 2. If e is a non-loop edge which connects distinct vertices $v_1$ and $v_2$, first remove the edge e, add a vertex to G, add two new edges $e_1$ and $e_2$.

 def: H is a subdivision of G, if H can be obtained from G via a sequence of subdivision of G along edges.

 Kuratowski's theorem: Let G be a graph. Then G is not planar iff it contains a subgraph which is isomorphic to a subdivision of $K_5$ or $K_{3,3}$.
 
Does there exist a non-planar graph which has 4 vertices ?
- no, any subgraph of such a graph has $\leq$ 4 vertices, a subdivision of $K_5$ has $\geq$ 5 vertices, a subdivision of $K_{3,3}$ has $\geq 6$ vertices.
Is $K_n$ planar for any $n \geq 6$ ?
- no, you can always find a subgraph isomorphic to $K_5$ by restricting to any 5 vertices, and including all edges incident to those vertices.