# Stars and bars 
Ex) How many ways to sum three dices to 13?
Ans:
We essentially want to solve this equation:
$$x_1+x_2+x_3 = 13 \text{ , } 1\leq x_i \leq 6$$
To solve this equation, we let $y = x-1$. Then, we obtain
$$y_1+y_2+y_3 = 10$$
The solution to this equation is $12\choose 2$. However, we have to exclude the cases where $y\geq 6$. We have three cases: $y_1 \geq 6$, $y_2 \geq 6$, and $y_3 \geq 6$.
$y_1 \geq 6$ : Let $z_1 = y_1-6$.
We have $z_1+y_2+y_3 = 4$, which is $6\choose 2$.
We want to subtract $B_1 \cup B_2 \cup B_3$, where $B_1 = \{z_1 +y_2+y_3 =4 | z_1 = y_1-6\}$ and etc.
We do not have to consider for exclusion in this case, since two variables being greater than or equal to 6 have no ways of summing to 10.
$\therefore {12\choose 2} - 3{6\choose 2}$

 Alternative:
 Let $y = 6-x$: $$y_1+y_2+y_3 = 5 \text{ , } 0\leq y \leq 5$$Ans: $7 \choose 2$ 
# Story proofs and Combinatorial identities
Ex) Let $n >0$ be an integer. Then, $2^n = \sum^n _{k=0} {n\choose k}$
Proof: Suppose I want to choose a group of people from n people. Then, $2^n$ is the number of ways to choose subsets of a set. $n\choose k$ is the number of ways to count exactly k people from n people. Therefore, summing up from $k=0$ to $n$ gives us the number of ways to select a group of people.

Ex) $n \choose k$ = $n \choose (n-k)$
Proof: $n \choose k$ is the number of ways to form a committee of k people from n people. To form the same committee, we can instead choose n-k people to exclude from committee. 

Ex) $k {n\choose k} = n {n-1 \choose k-1}$
Proof: Suppose you have a population of n people, and you would like to select a kingdom of $k$ subjects and name one of them queen. You can either pick k subjects ($n\choose k$) first and name one of them queen (k ways) or pick a queen (n) first and pick k subjects ($n-1\choose k-1$)
