**Binomial Theorem cont**
Ex) $3^n = \sum^n_{k=0} {n\choose k}2^n$

**The pigeonhole principle**
If n pigeons fly into k pigeon holes where $k<n$, then some pigeon hole contains at least 2 pigeons.

**Version 2**
If X and Y are finite nonempty sets with |X| > |Y|, and f: $X\rightarrow Y$ is a function, then $\exists$ $x_1, x_2 \in X$ such that $x_1 \neq x_2$ and $f(x_1) = f(x_2)$. 
$\rightarrow$ If |X|>|Y|, there is no injection $f:X\rightarrow Y$.

Ex) Suppose a party has 367 guests, then at least two guests will have the same birthday.

Ex) Suppose a party has n guests, where n>0. Some number of guests shake hands, nobody shakes hands with themselves, and no pair of people shakes hands more than once. Is it possible that every guest shook a different # of hands ?
Ans: There must exist at least two guests who shake the same number of hands.
Prrof: If someone shakes 0 hands, then no one can shake n-1 hands. If someone shakes n-1 hands, no one can shake 0 hands. Therefore, we have n people and the total number of handshakes possible is either {0,$\dots$, n-2} or {1,$\dots$, n-1}. In either case, we have n pigeons (people) and n-1 pigeonholes (possible number of hands shaken), thus at least 2 people will shake the same number of hands, by pigeonhole principle.

# Recurrence relations

Ex) Suppose we invest $10,000 into a brokerage account, which grows 8% per year. Suppose that every time one year passes we invest another $10,000. How much money $a_n$ will we have after n years ?

Solution:
$$a_n = (1.08)a_{n-1} + 10000$$
we want a formula for $a_n$ that doesn't depend on $a_{n-1}$.
Iteration:
$a_n = ma_{n-1} + P$ 
$a_n = m(ma_{n-2}+P) + P$
$a_n = m^2a_{n-2}+mP + P$
$a_n = m^2(ma_{n-3}+P)+mP + P$
$a_n = m^3a_{n-3}+(m^2+m+1)P$
$\vdots$
$a_n = m^k a_{n-k}+ (m^{k-1}+m^{k-2}+\dots+ m + 1)P$
With k = n:
$a_n = m^k a_{0}+ (m^{k-1}+m^{k-2}+\dots+ m + 1)P$
$a_n = m^k P+ (m^{k-1}+m^{k-2}+\dots+ m + 1)P$ ($a_0 = P$)
$1+m+m^2+\dots+m^{n-1} = \frac {m^n-1}{m-1}$ (Geometric series)
$\therefore$ $a_n = m^nP + (\frac{m^{n-1}}{m-1}P)$
