# Scheme
- Variant of Lisp
- Stripped down language
- No exception handling in the core

Basic overview
- objects are dynamically allocated & never freed (GC)
	- everything on scheme lives on the heap
- Types are latent, not manifest
	- the way you know the type of the object is to look at it in runtime.
	- manifest - obvious - static type checking
	- dynamic types
- Static scoping
	- Unlike traditional Lisp.
	- look at the current fn, definer, definer's definer ...
	- Static chain + dynamic chain
	- dynamic chain is needed for returning from function.
- Call by value (Java, C++, Python) (unlike Prolog)
- Objects include the usual + procedures
- Simple syntax, straight forward representation of program as data.
- Tail recursion optimization is required
	- When the function is called inside another function, say f calls g, the return address of f is replaced with the return address of g. It does not push the return address of g on the stack.
	- jmp instead of call
- No integer overflow, unsigned, signed int 

**Syntax**
- Identifiers a-zA-z_0-9-+.?*/<=>:$%^&~@
	- 0-9-+. cannot start an identifier except +, -, ->_, ...
	- used for variables, keywords, symbols
	- ; $\rightarrow$ colon
	- (l i s t s) separated by spaces
	- (): empty 
	- $\#$t, $\#$f
		- $\#$f is the only false value
	- "string"
	- $\#$c: character
	- 'x  '(x y ()): (quote x) (quote(x y ()))
	-  , dequotes $\rightarrow$ evaluate the value following the comma (ex: ,x )
- common functions
	- (cons a b)
		- (cons 3 "xy"): gives a pair (a . b)
		- (cons 3 '()): gives a list
	- (car p)
	- (cdr p)
	- (eq? A B): compares two objects like pointer comparison O(1)
	- (eqv? A B): contents of two objects (immediate comparison) O(N)
	- (= A B): numerical comparison (= -0.0 0.0: true) (O(N))
	- (equal? A B): Recursive comparison O(infinity) (if the data structure has a cycle)
	- lambda: to build a function
```Scheme
((lambda(n) ( (lambda (x y) (+( *x x) (* y y))) 
			 (+ 3 n) (- 2 n))) (read-num))
```
	let makes the code easier to read